Ingredients.md, before:

# Ingredients

As any template, one has made decisions. These fall into three categories: selection of libraries, target environment and the way the template app is designed (e.g. authentication and database usage). You can tinker with any of these, but in order to contribute to the template, we will remain focused and - hopefully - simple.

**Contains:**

- Rollup
- Vue.js 2 + Vue-router
- Firebase-auth and Firebase UI

**Does not contain:**

- Vue CLI usage

**Consumed with:**

Browsers with native ES6 and async/await - [everything](https://www.caniuse.com/#search=async) except IE11 (but [even it is not forgotten](https://github.com/akauppi/GroundLevel-firebase-web/issues/5)).


## Authentication decisions

- Using [Firebase UI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/firebaseui) library
- Using redirect (not popup) method for sign in. The choice is because of how we want the app to behave.
- Instead of a 'sign in' menu (in place of the user profile), we require the user to *always* sign in.

You can tinker with the code if you don't feel these choices match your needs.

Commit message:

Better looking drop-down menu; removed unneeded info about 'firebase init'

Ingredients.md, after:

# Ingredients

As any template, one has made decisions. These fall into three categories: selection of libraries, target environment and the way the template app is designed (e.g. authentication and database usage). You can tinker with any of these, but in order to contribute to the template, we will remain focused and - hopefully - simple.

**Contains:**

- Rollup
- Vue.js 2 + Vue-router
- Firebase-auth and Firebase UI

>*We'll consider Vue 3 the moment it's available in beta. It has 🍫🍬🍭 that makes the template simpler. :)*

<!-- Placeholder; not using Font Awesome
Font Awesome may only be used for some individual icons, in the template. Having it included is intended to make creating your app smoother.
-->

**Does not contain:**

- Vue CLI (not needed) [^1]
- Babel (can be easily added)

[^1]: Instead, we use GitHub for getting started, Rollup for packing and Firebase for deploying.

**Consumed with:**

Browsers with native ES6 and async/await - [everything](https://www.caniuse.com/#search=async) except IE11 (but [even it is not forgotten](https://github.com/akauppi/GroundLevel-firebase-web/issues/5)).


## Authentication decisions

- Using [Firebase UI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/firebaseui) library
- Using redirect (not popup) method for sign in. The choice is because of how we want the app to behave.
- Instead of a 'sign in' menu (in place of the user profile), we require the user to *always* sign in.

You can tinker with the code if you don't feel these choices match your needs.
