packages/app/KNOWN.md, before:

# Known issues


## Cannot see a thing

If, after `npm run dev`, there's nothing in the browser and the console shows:

`Unable to load module .. app.js`

..or something, nothing's necessarily wrong.

**Remedy #1**

Clear cache, refresh the browser.

**Remedy #2**

Try with multiple browsers. E.g. Chrome may give more debugging information than Safari.


## First `npm test` times out

```
$ npm test
...

 1) Sign In as Joe
       See one's name:
     AssertionError: Timed out retrying after 10000ms: Expected to find content: 'Joe D.' within the element: <div#user-name> but never did.
      at Context.eval (http://localhost:3000/__cypress/tests?p=cypress/joe/signInAs.spec.js:114:35)

```

This happens on the *first* test run (when DC containers are created). Reason is unknown - adding to the timeout did not help.

Docker Desktop for Mac 4.0.1

<!-- tbd. Do we still get it? DD 4.8 -->

**Work-around:**

Run the tests a second time.

This does not hinder CI runs (which is fortunate).


## `ECONNRESET` failure

```
$ npm run dev

> dev
> npm run dev:local


> dev:local
> npm run -s _checkNoEsBuild && npm run -s _emulPrimed && npm run -s _genEnvLocal && docker compose down vite-local && docker compose run --rm --service-ports vite-local

WARN[0000] Found orphan containers ([backend-warm-up-1 backend-emul-1]) for this project. If you removed or renamed this service in your compose file, you can run this command with the --remove-orphans flag to clean it up. 
[+] Running 1/1
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-for-app-1  Created                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1s
[+] Running 2/2
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-for-app-1  Started                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0s
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-1          Healthy                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9s
Firebase Emulators for the web app are running.

/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:44
        var _this = _super.call(this, errorInfo.message) || this;
                           ^

FirebaseAppError: Error while making request: socket hang up. Error code: ECONNRESET
    at FirebaseAppError.FirebaseError [as constructor] (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:44:28)
    at FirebaseAppError.PrefixedFirebaseError [as constructor] (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:90:28)
    at new FirebaseAppError (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:125:28)
    at /work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/api-request.js:211:19
    at process.processTicksAndRejections (node:internal/process/task_queues:95:5)
    at async wipeUsers (file:///work/src/createUsers/index.js:50:15)
    at async Promise.all (index 1)
    at async main (file:///work/src/main.js:24:3) {
  errorInfo: {
    code: 'app/network-error',
    message: 'Error while making request: socket hang up. Error code: ECONNRESET'
  },
  codePrefix: 'app'
}

Node.js v18.1.0
```

If you encounter this, just retry `npm run dev`.

The reason is unknown. 

- [ ] Make a GitHub Issue and try to resolve.


## Changes to `tools/*.dc/` not having effect

This is because of Docker Compose. Its `run` command is not sniffing, whether the source `Dockerfile` was changed, since the last build.

We *can* do this ourselves, once we move to using Makefiles. Currently checking for changes would be overly complex, and running a `build` for every `run` would take ~1s, unnecessarily (though still an option).

**Work-around:**

To bring changes into effect, run:

```
$ npm run _refresh
```

Commit message:

Automated detection of tools Dockerfile changes, using GNU make; Tidied the end of the root README

packages/app/KNOWN.md, after:

# Known issues


## Cannot see a thing

If, after `npm run dev`, there's nothing in the browser and the console shows:

`Unable to load module .. app.js`

..or something, nothing's necessarily wrong.

**Remedy #1**

Clear cache, refresh the browser.

**Remedy #2**

Try with multiple browsers. E.g. Chrome may give more debugging information than Safari.


## First `npm test` times out

```
$ npm test
...

 1) Sign In as Joe
       See one's name:
     AssertionError: Timed out retrying after 10000ms: Expected to find content: 'Joe D.' within the element: <div#user-name> but never did.
      at Context.eval (http://localhost:3000/__cypress/tests?p=cypress/joe/signInAs.spec.js:114:35)

```

This happens on the *first* test run (when DC containers are created). Reason is unknown - adding to the timeout did not help.

Docker Desktop for Mac 4.0.1

<!-- tbd. Do we still get it? DD 4.8 -->

**Work-around:**

Run the tests a second time.

This does not hinder CI runs (which is fortunate).


## `ECONNRESET` failure

```
$ npm run dev

> dev
> npm run dev:local


> dev:local
> npm run -s _checkNoEsBuild && npm run -s _emulPrimed && npm run -s _genEnvLocal && docker compose down vite-local && docker compose run --rm --service-ports vite-local

WARN[0000] Found orphan containers ([backend-warm-up-1 backend-emul-1]) for this project. If you removed or renamed this service in your compose file, you can run this command with the --remove-orphans flag to clean it up. 
[+] Running 1/1
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-for-app-1  Created                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1s
[+] Running 2/2
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-for-app-1  Started                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0s
 ⠿ Container backend-emul-1          Healthy                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9s
Firebase Emulators for the web app are running.

/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:44
        var _this = _super.call(this, errorInfo.message) || this;
                           ^

FirebaseAppError: Error while making request: socket hang up. Error code: ECONNRESET
    at FirebaseAppError.FirebaseError [as constructor] (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:44:28)
    at FirebaseAppError.PrefixedFirebaseError [as constructor] (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:90:28)
    at new FirebaseAppError (/work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/error.js:125:28)
    at /work/node_modules/firebase-admin/lib/utils/api-request.js:211:19
    at process.processTicksAndRejections (node:internal/process/task_queues:95:5)
    at async wipeUsers (file:///work/src/createUsers/index.js:50:15)
    at async Promise.all (index 1)
    at async main (file:///work/src/main.js:24:3) {
  errorInfo: {
    code: 'app/network-error',
    message: 'Error while making request: socket hang up. Error code: ECONNRESET'
  },
  codePrefix: 'app'
}

Node.js v18.1.0
```

If you encounter this, just retry `npm run dev`.

The reason is unknown. 

- [ ] Make a GitHub Issue and try to resolve.


<!-- Solved(?) by using a Makefile 
## Changes to `tools/*.dc/` not having effect

This is because of Docker Compose (`v2.6.1`). Its `run` command is not sniffing, whether the source `Dockerfile` was changed, since the last build.

>The author is not aware of how to make the sniff. Throw good ideas, or submit a PR. :)

We *can* do this ourselves, once using Makefiles. Currently checking for changes would be overly complex, and running a `build` for every `run` would take ~1s, unnecessarily (though still an option).

>Note: Even `build` doesn't cut it.

**Work-around:**

To bring changes into effect, run:<sup>

```
$ make refresh
```

<sub>[1]: This expects you to have Gnu Make installed. This may be a requisite for the repo in the future, splitting dependency management and building away from the `npm` package files.</sub>
-->
