# 1.3 Learning about users

You can learn stuff about your users already with custom counters, presented earlier. How many they are (count application startups). Where do they come from (count browser information about geographical location).  Which features they use - or don't.

Professional analytics tools do this on a more generic level. They don't know about your particular application's features, but provide the general visitor information and trends.

If you are serious about analytics, you already know this.

Some tools, like Google Analytics, would tie the information collected together with other visits they know about (to other apps or websites) and form "profiles" of people. 

This has the benefit of allowing you to know more about your visitors than you could, simply by being restrained to the browser's APIs. But profiles can be misleading, require the browser to have cookies enabled, and are mostly geared towards the advertisement industry.

You don't need "profiles" to learn about and serve your users well.

The author has selected Plausible as the preferred user analytics service. Its use is optional, since it is the *only* service enforced that doesn't  provide a permanent free tier.

Give it a go, if you like to. :)

|||
|---|---|
|**Learning about users**|
|- do we have users?|Plausible > |
|- where are they from?|Plausible > |
|- how did they find the app?|Plausible > |
|- what devices/browsers/network speeds do they use?|Plausible > |

<!-- tbd. diagram on what gets collected, how
-->

## What gets automatically collected?

...

## What do I need to code?

Nothing.


## How to set it up?

<!-- tbd. instructions (away from 0-intro!) to set Plausible up
-->


## References

<!-- ... -->

---

<div class="wrapper" style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;">
  <div>≪ <a href="1.2-internal.md">1.2 Internal probes</a></div>
  <div align=right><a href="1.3-users.md">1.3 Learning about users</a></div>
</div>