DEVS/Coding.md, before:

# Coding style

## Prefer explicit exports over default

`import { some } from 'module.js'`, even when there's just one thing to export/import. Using default export (not those curly braces is treated as a javascriptism.

## Prefer `(vm) => ...` over `this`

ES6 arrow functions can be used with Vue. It's just that most existing samples rely on `this` approach. 

Using `this` becomes tedious in an otherwise ES6 environment. Which scope does it refer to - where was my `function`. Sometimes, there is no `function` keyword but it's implied:

```
const abc = ({
  ...,
  created() {   // method definition seems to make a traditional JavaScript function
    const vm = this;
```

It would be best to avoid using `this` completely, in ES6 code. Help is welcome to spot places it still exists - and overcome them with arrow functions.

## Language over framework

It seems Vue 2 has [injection handling](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#provide-inject).

Instead of using that, we use ES6 modules (`mixins/user.js`).

The problem with framework features is added learning curve - also from the reader of such code. If something can be done in the language (ES6 + async/await), let's do it there.

This also makes it easier to change frameworks, or implement the template in multiple frameworks (in different branches).

Commit message:

revise of DEVS docs (except Vite, Vue); some code changes

DEVS/Coding.md, after:

# Coding style

## Prefer explicit exports over default

`import { some } from 'module.js'`, even when there's just one thing to export/import. Using default export (no curly braces) is treated as a javascriptism.

## Avoid `this` - like a plague

`this` is *not* required with ES6 coding and Vue.js 3.

Any place where it occurs is **treated as a bug**.

*Why does this matter?*

The `this` mentality provides an additional axis of abstraction (a context) that is sometimes hard to reason about (`function` vs. arrow function). It makes the *language* more complex than it needs to be.

## Language over framework

It seems Vue 2 has [injection handling](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#provide-inject).

Instead of using that, we use ES6 modules (`mixins/user.js`).

The problem with framework features is added learning curve - also from the reader of such code. If something can be done in the language (ES6 + async/await), let's do it there.

This also makes it easier to change frameworks, or implement the template in multiple frameworks (in different branches).
