DEVS/Firebase libraries.md, before:

# Firebase libraries

Firebase has quite many server and client side JavaScript libraries, and their life cycles, quality etc. differ from each other.

Here is a list of the ones we've come across (all authored by Firebase), to help one see their relevance - or lack thereof. 



## Table

>Note: This table is a "best effort" and we aim to edit it, from time to time, when better real world knowledge of the various libraries is gained.

|npm|What is it?|When to use?|Open issues|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Client side**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;[`firebase`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase)|Main JavaScript client|Browser app or client side node.js (e.g. tests)|[220](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 18-May-2017; includes `@firebase/testing` issues|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`@firebase/testing`|Library "..for testing Security Rules with the Realtime Database or Cloud Firestore" (i.e. more limited scope than the the name implies!)|Testing Firestore functionality that needs authentication (e.g. security rules but also integration tests).<br/><br/>Benefits:<ul><li>*"supports mocking auth in Security Rules"*</li><li>*Any database will accept the string `"owner"` as an admin auth token.*</li></ul>Deficiencies:<ul><font color=red><li>Q: do data changes trigger emulated Cloud Functions??</li></font></ul>|Part of the `firebase-js-sdk` repo: `packages/testing`. *No separate issues tracking* <br/><br/>[9](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atesting-sdk) (24-Jul-20); oldest 16-May-2019|
|**Between client and server sides (fuzzy and furry) 🦥**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-functions-test`|Tools for making *unit tests* on Cloud Functions.|You want to unit test Cloud Functions within the `functions` folder. We don't use it. Making integration tests against local emulators may be a better approach.|[9](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-functions-test/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 8-Apr-2018|
|**Server side**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-admin`|Access to Firebase data, when running in a server-side node environment (locally emulated or online)|Don't use this client side.|[33](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-admin-node/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 7-Jun-2017|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-functions`|A library needed for implementing Cloud Functions||[30](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-functions/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 19-Jun-2018|
|**Developer tools**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-tools`|Command Line Interface (CLI)|Development and deployment; launching emulators. You need it.|[146](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 16-Dec-2015|

Note: There are also other, non-official packages that are not deployed by Firebase. **Stay clear of those!** It would be a good phishing attempt to make something people would install, by accident. **DO NOT TRUST THE NAMES**. It would be welcome if Firebase brought **all** their `npm` modules under the `@firebase` namespace, for simplifying this.

Why list the oldest issues?

Having old (say, over 6 months) issues in a repo is unmotivating for employees and causes a jungle of discussions to browse through for visitors. A healthy repo would have relatively fast turn-around times, issues being assigned to milestones or resolved as "nah, we won't do that".

Tracking a project's energy and roadmap is easier when old issues are not standing in the way.

That's why they are listed. Once they are <1 year in the past, we'll remove the listing. 

🧹

### Where does the confusion rise from??

Entries like [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62566957/cannot-call-firestore-from-unit-tests/62586875#62586875) show the "admin" library being used with tests (not run as a privileged environment, but just from the development environment command line).

Also [Unit testing of Cloud Functions](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/unit-testing) (Firebase docs) is in this blurry middle kingdom.

It might work.

However, the author finds it way clearer to keep `firebase-admin` to the admin side (Cloud Functions run either online, or by the emulator) and client side (including tests) client side.

This means no function unit tests, but integration tests instead.

Commit message:

fns-test; before doing initialization with Node instead of Jest globalSetup

DEVS/Firebase libraries.md, after:

# Firebase libraries

Firebase has quite many server and client side JavaScript libraries, and their life cycles, quality etc. differ from each other.

Here is a list of the ones we've come across (all authored by Firebase), to help one see their relevance - or lack thereof. 



## Table

>Note: This table is a "best effort" and we aim to edit it, from time to time, when better real world knowledge of the various libraries is gained.

|npm|What is it?|When to use?|Open issues|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Client side**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;[`firebase`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase)|Main JavaScript client|Browser app or client side node.js (e.g. tests)|[220](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 18-May-2017; includes `@firebase/testing` issues|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`@firebase/testing`|Library "..for testing Security Rules with the Realtime Database or Cloud Firestore".|Testing Firestore functionality that needs authentication.<br/><br/>Benefits:<ul><li>*"supports mocking auth in Security Rules"*</li><li>*Any database will accept the string `"owner"` as an admin auth token.*</li></ul>|Part of the `firebase-js-sdk` repo: `packages/testing`. *No separate issues tracking* <br/><br/>[9](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atesting-sdk) (24-Jul-20); oldest 16-May-2019|
|**Between client and server sides (fuzzy and furry) 🦥**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-functions-test`|Tools for making *unit tests* on Cloud Functions.|You want to unit test Cloud Functions within the `functions` folder. We don't use it. Making integration tests against local emulators may be a better approach.|[9](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-functions-test/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 8-Apr-2018|
|**Server side**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-admin`|Access to Firebase data, when running in a server-side node environment (locally emulated or online)|Don't use this client side.|[33](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-admin-node/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 7-Jun-2017|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-functions`|A library needed for implementing Cloud Functions||[30](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-functions/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 19-Jun-2018|
|**Developer tools**|
|&nbsp;&nbsp;`firebase-tools`|Command Line Interface (CLI)|Development and deployment; launching emulators. You need it.|[146](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools/issues) (23-Jul-20); oldest 16-Dec-2015|

Note: There are also other, non-official packages that are *not* deployed by Firebase. **Stay clear of those!** It would be a good phishing attempt to make something people would install, by accident. **DO NOT TRUST THE NAMES**. It would be welcome if Firebase brought **all** their `npm` modules under the `@firebase` namespace, for simplicity.

### `@firebase/testing` is really only about authentication..

You don't really need it much. The approach taken in this repo is to use it for testing to Security Rules, but not elsewhere.

This approach provides a great orthogonality for testing. One set (`rules-test`) tests *who* can change things but the rest simply expect that to have been handled, and don't apply security rules. This means, `@firebase/testing` only needs to be included in one test set and the normal JavaScript client can be used, elsewhere.


### Why list the oldest issues?

Having old (say, over 6 months) issues in a repo is unmotivating for employees and causes a jungle of discussions to browse through for visitors. A healthy repo would have relatively fast turn-around times, issues being assigned to milestones or resolved as "nah, we won't do that".

Tracking a project's energy and roadmap is easier when old issues are not standing in the way.

That's why they are listed. Once they are <1 year in the past, we'll remove the listing. 

🧹

### Where does the confusion rise from??

Entries like [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62566957/cannot-call-firestore-from-unit-tests/62586875#62586875) show the "admin" library being used with tests (not run as a privileged environment, but just from the development environment command line).

Also [Unit testing of Cloud Functions](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/unit-testing) (Firebase docs) is in this blurry middle kingdom.

It might work.

However, the author finds it way clearer to keep `firebase-admin` to the admin side (Cloud Functions run either online, or by the emulator) and client side (including tests) client side.

This means no function unit tests, but integration tests instead.
