DEVS/Firebase tips.md, before:

# Firebase tips


## Use creation date in the project id

Firebase automatically appends a uniqueness id to your project id (e.g. `mysome-5342`). You can edit this to your liking, and using `DDMMYY` format may provide extra benefit to a random number:

- you know when you created it (how stale it is)
- if you end up creating multiple projects for the same thing, it helps keep log

While you *can* likely get this info from elsewhere, why not just make randomness work for you. :)


## Firestore: use array/object or a collection?

Firestore works on the document-collection-document-... pattern (see [Cloud Firestore Data model](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/data-model) (Firebase docs)).

One can express a dataset either within a document, or as a combination of documents and subcollections. Here are the pros/cons of both approaches:

### Within a document

Pros:

- Simple, traditional
- May be cheaper: access is charged by documents read, and access to multiple fields of a single document counts as 1 read. This may be the strongest reason to avoid splitting data to sub-collections.

Cons:

- Not native thinking for Firebase
- Access is all-or-nothing

### As sub-collections

Essentially the inverse of the pros/cons above. :)


### Quotes

>Don't add subcollections unless you need it. I only add them when there is a large amount of related data that does not need to be pulled Everytime I retrieve root data.<sub>[source](https://www.reddit.com/r/Firebase/comments/bi45dr/firestore_is_there_any_good_reason_to_use/)</sub>

Ability to do [Collection group queries](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/queries#collection-group-query) (Firebase docs) has likely evened the weigh for using sub-collections (they were launched in 2019). If you read online, consider any experiences *prior* to that as potentially misleading. 🍄


## Syntax highlighting of Security Rules on IntelliJ IDEs (kind of...)

See [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46600491/what-is-the-name-of-the-language-used-for-cloud-firestore-security-rules/60848863#60848863) (StackOverflow) about setting up "file type associations" in IntelliJ IDEA - may also work in WebStorm.

In addition, set to 2 spaces:


## Understanding `firebase use`

It defines which Firebase project your development terminal and local instance started by, say, `npm run dev`, is connected to.

|||
|---|---|
|List the current shortcuts|`firebase use`|
|Make a new shortcut|`firebase use --add`|

The aliases you give don't really matter. `abc` is a good candidate. ;P

```
$ more .firebaserc 
{
  "projects": {
    "default": "vue-rollup-example",
    "prod": "groundlevel-production"
  }
}
```


## Security Rules Online Simulator

The simulator can be very useful, providing detailed information on why a certain rule failed. But you need to know where to look.

>Note: Now that Firebase is bringing the development experience more towards the local (with emulation), how about a local tool for this use case so we don't need to copy-paste rules files to the cloud? (27-Aug-20)

### Rule, Evaluated

Scroll to the top right of the window. Here you see how Firebase evaluates your rule:

![](.images/rule-evaluated.png)

You can click each rule fragment open to see what it evaluates to. Any surprises lead you further.


### Entering `FieldValue` values

There is no UI support for building a document with `FieldValue`s (e.g. server time stamp) but maybe we can fool the simulator by:

```
{
  _methodName: 'FieldValue.serverTimestamp'
}
```



## Viewing logs online

Easiest to get to the online logs:

```
$ firebase functions:log --only logs_v200719 --open
```

Click `Preview`.

![](.images/logs-viewer-preview.png)

Nice! 😀

See filtering info -> [Logs Based Metrics](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/writing-and-viewing-logs#logs-based_metrics) (Firebase docs)

Note that Firebase logs are intended for the back end (which is always online). The front end library has no means for central logging.


## You can `debug()` security rules!

Firebase Rules Reference > [rules.debug](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rules/rules.debug) (Firebase docs)

>Note that the output goes to `firestore-debug.log`, not stdout.


## Debugging Security Rules tests

The `firestore-debug.log` file generated by the emulator may provide info about why some rules work different than intended:

```
...
INFO: operation failed: 
Function not found error: Name: [validUserInfoWrite]. for 'create' @ L334
...
```


## Changes are different in server triggers vs. Firestore client

Listening to changes to a document, using Cloud Firestore triggers (`firestore-functions`):

```
exports.blah = regionalFunctions.firestore
  .document('/userInfo/{uid}')
  .onWrite( async (change, context) => {
    // no change types
    // change.before: QueryDocumentSnapshot 
    // change.after: -''-
    //
    const uid = change.after.id;   // document id
```


Doing the same in client code (`firebase`):

```
db.collection("userInfo/{uid}")
  .onSnapshot( snapshot => {
    snapshot.docChanges().forEach( change => {
      // change.type: "added"|"modified"|...
      // change.doc.data(): 
```


||Cloud Functions trigger (server)|Firestore client|
|---|---|---|
|Change type|implied by one's choice of listener method: `.onCreate`,`.onUpdate`,`.onWrite`,`.onDelete`|change indicated by `change.type` (enum: "added"\|"modified"\|"removed")|
|Document id|`change.after.id`|...|
|Previous contents|`change.before.data()`|n/a|
|New contents|`change.after.data()`|`change.doc.data()`|

These are essentially two wholly separate APIs and there are likely reasons why they are so. The first happens **on demand** at the server, whereas the client approach is an ongoing watcher for data changes.

References:

- [Cloud Firestore function triggers](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/firestore-events#function_triggers) (Firebase docs)
- [View changes between snapshots](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/listen#view_changes_between_snapshots) (Firebase docs)

Commit message:

Resolved problems with 'npm run build'; revised most DEVS/*.md and TODO.md

DEVS/Firebase tips.md, after:

# Firebase tips


## Use creation date in the project id

Firebase automatically appends a uniqueness id to your project id (e.g. `mysome-5342`). You can edit this to your liking, and using `DDMMYY` format may provide extra benefit to a random number:

- you know when you created it (how stale it is)
- if you end up creating multiple projects for the same thing, it helps keep log

While you *can* likely get this info from elsewhere, why not just make randomness work for you. :)


## Firestore: use array/object or a collection?

Firestore works on the document-collection-document-... pattern (see [Cloud Firestore Data model](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/data-model) (Firebase docs)).

One can express a dataset either within a document, or as a combination of documents and subcollections. Here are the pros/cons of both approaches:

### Within a document

Pros:

- Simple, traditional
- May be cheaper: access is charged by documents read, and access to multiple fields of a single document counts as 1 read. This may be the strongest reason to avoid splitting data to sub-collections.

Cons:

- Not native thinking for Firebase
- Access is all-or-nothing

### As sub-collections

Essentially the inverse of the pros/cons above. :)


### Quotes

>Don't add subcollections unless you need it. I only add them when there is a large amount of related data that does not need to be pulled Everytime I retrieve root data.<sub>[source](https://www.reddit.com/r/Firebase/comments/bi45dr/firestore_is_there_any_good_reason_to_use/)</sub>

Ability to do [Collection group queries](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/queries#collection-group-query) (Firebase docs) has likely evened the weigh for using sub-collections (they were launched in 2019). If you read online, consider any experiences *prior* to that as potentially misleading. 🍄


## Syntax highlighting of Security Rules on IntelliJ IDEs (kind of...)

See [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46600491/what-is-the-name-of-the-language-used-for-cloud-firestore-security-rules/60848863#60848863) (StackOverflow) about setting up "file type associations" in IntelliJ IDEA - may also work in WebStorm.

In addition, set to 2 spaces:


## Understanding `firebase use`

It defines which Firebase project your development terminal and local instance started by, say, `npm run dev`, is connected to.

|||
|---|---|
|List the current shortcuts|`firebase use`|
|Make a new shortcut|`firebase use --add`|

The aliases you give don't really matter. `abc` is a good candidate. ;P

```
$ more .firebaserc 
{
  "projects": {
    "default": "vue-rollup-example",
    "prod": "groundlevel-production"
  }
}
```

### Gotcha!

`firebase use --clear` logs you out of the active project, but **only if there are 2 or more aliases**. Otherwise, it silently fails (you are still having an active project).

Clearing the project is useful for being able to test the developer experience, and to write right documentation. 

According to Firebase, the above is **intended behavior**. They could at least print a warning, to let the user know their wish was turned down.

**Work-around:**

Add your project twice, with different aliases. :)


## Security Rules Online Simulator

The simulator can be very useful, providing detailed information on why a certain rule failed. But you need to know where to look.

>Note: Now that Firebase is bringing the development experience more towards the local (with emulation), how about a local tool for this use case so we don't need to copy-paste rules files to the cloud? (27-Aug-20)

### Rule, Evaluated

Scroll to the top right of the window. Here you see how Firebase evaluates your rule:

![](.images/rule-evaluated.png)

You can click each rule fragment open to see what it evaluates to. Any surprises lead you further.


### Entering `FieldValue` values

There is no UI support for building a document with `FieldValue`s (e.g. server time stamp) but maybe we can fool the simulator by:

```
{
  _methodName: 'FieldValue.serverTimestamp'
}
```


## You can `debug()` security rules!

Firebase Rules Reference > [rules.debug](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rules/rules.debug) (Firebase docs)

>Note that the output goes to `firestore-debug.log`, not stdout.


## Debugging Security Rules tests

The `firestore-debug.log` file generated by the emulator may provide info about why some rules work different than intended:

```
...
INFO: operation failed: 
Function not found error: Name: [validUserInfoWrite]. for 'create' @ L334
...
```


## Changes are different in server triggers vs. Firestore client

Listening to changes to a document, using Cloud Firestore triggers (`firestore-functions`):

```
exports.blah = regionalFunctions.firestore
  .document('/userInfo/{uid}')
  .onWrite( async (change, context) => {
    // no change types
    // change.before: QueryDocumentSnapshot 
    // change.after: -''-
    //
    const uid = change.after.id;   // document id
```


Doing the same in client code (`firebase`):

```
db.collection("userInfo/{uid}")
  .onSnapshot( snapshot => {
    snapshot.docChanges().forEach( change => {
      // change.type: "added"|"modified"|...
      // change.doc.data(): 
```


||Cloud Functions trigger (server)|Firestore client|
|---|---|---|
|Change type|implied by one's choice of listener method: `.onCreate`,`.onUpdate`,`.onWrite`,`.onDelete`|change indicated by `change.type` (enum: "added"\|"modified"\|"removed")|
|Document id|`change.after.id`|...|
|Previous contents|`change.before.data()`|n/a|
|New contents|`change.after.data()`|`change.doc.data()`|

These are essentially two wholly separate APIs and there are likely reasons why they are so. The first happens **on demand** at the server, whereas the client approach is an ongoing watcher for data changes.

References:

- [Cloud Firestore function triggers](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/firestore-events#function_triggers) (Firebase docs)
- [View changes between snapshots](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/listen#view_changes_between_snapshots) (Firebase docs)
