packages/backend/APPROACH.md, before:

# Approach


## Waking up Cloud Functions

The Firebase Emulators (`firebase-tools` 9.16.0) leave Cloud Functions "resting" after launch.

This is tedious, and causes initial tests easily to time out. We've counteracted this with:

- `docker-compose.yml` has a `warm-up` service that exercises Cloud Functions by running some tests, and then opens port 6768 for business
- Actual tests check for the 6768 port, before advancing



## Use of DC

**Developer Experience**

We use Docker Compose for starting the Emulators, and warming them up, but *not* for running the tests.

- Running tests under DC is way slower, for some reason (at least on Docker Desktop for Mac, 4.0)
- There is no benefit from encapsulation

**CI**

In CI, tests are run via Docker Compose. Here, we have more control over the execution environment (Cloud Build) and probably problems don't affect fellow developers, just the project maintainers.

>Alternatives:
>
>The project earlier used the Emulator image (`firebase-ci-builder`) to also run the tests - since it has Node and `npm`. This works, but tightly couples the emulator container to the test execution environment (them being the same). DC provides more freedom.


**App**

The application sub-package needs backend support that is slightly different than the needs for the backend testing.

Also, it should be a separate instance since we want to keep these two separate. `docker-compose.app.yml` and the `app:start` `npm` target do this: they provide the `app` package a stable backend instance while keeping backend and app concerns separated.

Commit message:

Doc review of root, backend; made backend tests more reliable by adding 'rules' to warm-up

packages/backend/APPROACH.md, after:

# Approach


## Waking up Cloud Functions

The Firebase Emulators (`firebase-tools` 9.16.0) leave Cloud Functions "resting" after launch.

This is tedious, and causes initial tests easily to time out. We've counteracted this with:

- `docker-compose.yml` has a `warm-up` service that exercises Cloud Functions by running some tests, and then opens port 6768 for business
- Actual tests check for the 6768 port, before advancing

>Note: Around `firebase-tools` 10.6.0, the warm-up no longer seems to be sufficient / behave as before. Tests often time out (> 2000 ms), anyhow.


## Use of Docker Compose

We've gone "all in" - happened step by step. Launching the emulators (and doing warm-up) in Docker Compose just *is* simpler than alternative means (handling concurrency with `npm` packages).

Added benefit is unification of the Developer Experience.

**Developer Experience**

We still run tests (Jest) natively, not in DC. This seems like a good balance.

**CI**

In CI, everything is Docker Compose.

**App**

The application sub-package needs backend support that is slightly different than the needs for the backend testing.

This repo provides those:

- `docker-compose.app[.ci].yaml`
- `package.json`: `app:start`

This is a small burden. Since these are backend services, it feels best to declare them here rather than in the `app` folder.
