# 1.3 Logging and counters

There's One More Thing to monitoring...

While Performance Monitoring is often (in production) based on samples, and Error Monitoring only happens when things go awry, one may wish for a capability to "always" send things to a central dashboard.

## Questions to ask

With logging and counters in place, you can answer questions such as:

|||
|---|---|
|**User behaviour**|
|- how many users does the application have?<sup>[1]</sup>|
|- how many users hit a specific feature, within the app (within a recent time window)?|

<sub>[1]: This was also covered in Performance Monitoring</sub> <!-- tbd. where to have it? -->


## Implementation

The author did not find a browser-to-service logging product, so the implementation is proxying the calls via Cloud Functions, to Cloud Logging.  <!-- and *xxx*.  tbd. where are counters seen?? -->

The shipping is "eventually consistent", i.e. logs and counter changes will *eventually* show up in the target dashboards, but there's no timing guarantee, as such.

The delivery is *offline friendly* (this adds to not giving a timing guarantee): if a device is offline, it can still collect logs and counter changes.

Even when online, data is *cached* at the client to be delivered in bursts. This improves network efficiency and battery life.


## Cloud Logging

The eventual target of the logs is a Cloud Logging instance of the same project as the Firebase deployment.<sup>[1]</sup>

<sub>[1]: Logs from multiple stages would be going to different destinations, but it's fairly easy to merge them together to a specific logging-only project if one wants to.</sub>




## Counters dashboard

No such thing.

<!-- tbd. -->



---

<div class="wrapper" style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;">
  <div>≪ <a href="1.3-perf.md">1.3 Performance monitoring</a></div>
  <div align=right><font color=gray href="2-ab.md">2 A/B testing</a> ≫</div>
</div>
